#summary Read BLAST records in XML format from one or more files.

=Biopiece: read_blast_xml=

==Description==

[lowercase_seq] read tabular BLAST format created with `blastall` and the
`-m 7` switch - or with blast+ and the `-outfmt 5` switch.
Each column in the table corresponds to the following keys:

  # Q_ID        -  Query ID.
  # S_ID        -  Subject ID.
  # IDENT       -  Identity(%).
  # ALIGN_LEN   -  Alignment length.
  # MISMATCHES  -  Number of mismatches.
  # GAPS        -  Number of gaps.
  # Q_BEG       -  Query begin.
  # Q_END       -  Query end.
  # S_BEG       -  Subject begin.
  # S_END       -  Subject end.
  # E_VAL       -  Expect value.
  # BIT_SCORE   -  Bit score.

Furthermore, six extra keys are added to the record:

  * STRAND      -  Strand.
  * REC_TYPE    -  Record type.
  * N_IDENT     -  Number of perfect matches.
  * POSITIVE    -  Number of positive scoring substitutions
  * Q_SEQ       -  Query sequence
  * S_SEQ       -  Subject sequence
  * M_SEQ       -  Midline

==Usage==

{{{
read_blast_xml [options] -i <BLAST XML file(s)>
}}}

==Options==

{{{
[-?          | --help]               #  Print full usage description.
[-i <files!> | --data_in=<files!>]   #  Comma separated list of files or glob expression to read.
[-n <uint>   | --num=<uint>]         #  Limit number of records to read.
[-I <file!>  | --stream_in=<file!>]  #  Read input from stream file   -  Default=STDIN
[-O <file>   | --stream_out=<file>]  #  Write output to stream file   -  Default=STDOUT
[-v          | --verbose]            #  Verbose output.
}}}

==Examples==

To read all BLAST entries from a file:

{{{
read_blast_xml -i test.blast.xml
}}}

To read in only 10 records from a BLAST file:

{{{
read_blast_xml -n 10 -i test.blast.xml
}}}

To read all BLAST entries from multiple files:

{{{
read_blast_xml -i test1.blast.xml,test2.blast.xml
}}}

To read BLAST entries from multiple files using a glob expression:

{{{
read_blast_xml -i '*.blast.xml'
}}}


==See also==

[blast_seq]

[write_blast]

==Author==

Alexis Grimaldi

sopo.dev@gmail.com

April 2010

==License==

GNU General Public License version 2

http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html

==Help==

[read_blast_xml] is part of the Biopieces framework.

http://www.biopieces.org

